{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf610
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Light;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red32\green39\blue55;\red255\green255\blue255;\red6\green73\blue255;
\red26\green26\blue26;\red46\green111\blue253;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c16863\c20392\c27843;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c40000\c100000;
\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c22750\c53231\c99501;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl960\sa536\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs80 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 El futuro de la computaci\'f3n cu\'e1ntica y la Inteligencia Artificial\
The future of quantum computing and Artificial Intelligence\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl500\sa500\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs50 \cf4 \strokec4 C\'f3mo funciona un computador cu\'e1ntico\
How a quantum computer works.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl600\sa540\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs36 \cf5 \strokec5 Antes de proceder, es interesante entender c\'f3mo funciona un computador cu\'e1ntico. Todos sabemos que la computaci\'f3n actual se basa en unos y ceros. Si lo equiparamos a una moneda, cada bit (1 o 0) implica que la moneda es cara o cruz. Con la computaci\'f3n cu\'e1ntica, sin embargo, debido a las propiedades de\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superposici%C3%B3n_cu%C3%A1ntica"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 superposici\'f3n cu\'e1ntica\'a0}}de la materia, los qubits (quantum bits) pueden ser 1 y un 0,\'a0
\i a la vez.
\i0 \'a0Si seguimos la analog\'eda de la moneda, implicar\'eda que pueden ser cara y cruz simult\'e1neamente.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \'a0Before proceeding, it is interesting to understand how a quantum computer works. We all know that today's computing is based on ones and zeros. If we equate it to a coin, each bit (1 or 0) implies that the coin is heads or tails. With quantum computing, however, due to the \cf6 \ul \ulc6 quantum superposition \cf5 \ulnone properties of matter, qubits (quantum bits) can be 1 and 0 at the same time. If we follow the analogy of the coin, it would imply that they can be heads and tails simultaneously.
\f0\b\fs40 \
\
\
Debido a las propiedades de superposici\'f3n cu\'e1ntica de la materia, los qubits (quantum bits) pueden ser 1 y un 0,\'a0
\i\b0 a la vez.\
Due to the quantum superposition properties of matter, qubits (quantum bits) can be 1 and 0 at the same time.\
\
\

\f2\i0\fs36 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \'95	\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 El futuro no es solo digital:
\f1 \'a0La combinaci\'f3n de bits + neuronas + qubits revolucionar\'e1 la computaci\'f3n, con implicaciones importantes para toda la humanidad.\
\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl600\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2 \cf5 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Las implicaciones de esa tecnolog\'eda ser\'e1n demasiado importantes como para dejarlas solo a los que hacen tecnolog\'eda
\f1 : Necesitamos aproximarnos a esta nueva realidad con un enfoque multidisplinar, no solo tecnol\'f3gico, necesitamos humanismo.\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\sl600\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \'95 The future is not just digital: The combination of bits + neurons + qubits will revolutionize computing, with important implications for all humanity.\
\
\'95 The implications of this technology will be too important to be left only to those who make technology: We need to approach this new reality with a multidisciplinary approach, not just technological, we need humanism.\cb1 \
}